Teddy.gesbert/doc dora (#28316)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/dora_metrics/setup/deployments.md

[APM Deployment Tracking][15] can be configured as a data source for deployments in DORA Metrics.

### Requirements

> - APM Deployment Tracking is enabled as a Deployment events data source in [DORA settings][19].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **APM Deployment Tracking** is enabled as a **Deployments** event data source in [DORA settings][19].
```

- Your service has [metadata][16] defined in the Software Catalog.
- Your service has [unified service tagging][17] enabled. Deployments are identified using the `version` tag.

For more information about ensuring service deployments that are tracked by APM contribute to change lead time, see [change lead time requirements](#requirements-for-calculating-change-lead-time).

[15]: /tracing/services/deployment_tracking
[16]: /software_catalog/adding_metadata
[17]: /getting_started/tagging/unified_service_tagging/?tab=kubernetes
[18]: /dora_metrics/setup/deployments/?tab=apmdeploymenttracking#selecting-a-deployment-data-source
[19]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/settings/dora

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "API or CLI" %}}

To send your own deployment events, use the [DORA Metrics API][21] or the [`datadog-ci dora deployment`][22] command.

### Requirements

> - datadog-ci CLI / API is enabled as a deployment events data source in [DORA settings][28].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **datadog-ci CLI / API** is enabled as a **Deployments** event data source in [DORA settings][28].
```

- The following attributes are required:
  - `started_at`: The time the deployment started.
  - `finished_at`: The time the deployment finished.
  - `service`: The service that was deployed. If the provided service is registered in the [Software Catalog][23] with metadata set up (see [Adding Metadata][24]), the `team` of the service is automatically retrieved and associated with all metrics.

You can optionally add the following attributes to the deployment events:

> - `repository_url`: The source code repository of the service. ***Required for calculating change lead time***
> - `commit_sha`: The SHA of the HEAD commit associated with the deployment. ***Required for calculating change lead time***
> - `team` to associate a deployment with a different `team` than the one found automatically for the service.
> - `env` to filter your DORA metrics by environment on the [**DORA Metrics** page][25].
> - `id` for identifying a deployment. This attribute is user-generated; when not provided, the endpoint returns a Datadog-generated UUID.
> - `version`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `repository_url`: The source code repository of the service. Required for calculating change lead time.
- `commit_sha`: The SHA of the HEAD commit associated with the deployment. Required for calculating change lead time.
- `team`: Associate a deployment with a different `team` than the one found automatically for the service.
- `env`: Filter your DORA metrics by environment on the [DORA Metrics][25] page.
- `id`: Identify a deployment. This attribute is user-generated; when not provided, the endpoint returns a Datadog-generated UUID.
- `version`: The deployment version.
```
